[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: What's another thing
that we oftentimes find with command line
programs?
What happens if you use
a command line program but
you don't pass the right parameters,
what does it do?
>> Speaker 2: It shows [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: It shows
some sort of help, right?
Why don't we make our own help?
So let's write ourselves a function,
I'll call it print help.
And this is the dumbest and
simplest way to do it.
There's packages out there that
automatically make these helps for you.
I'm just showing you how we might do it.
I could say, console.log 1.js
is the name of my program.
And for good measure, I'll go ahead and
make sure to put my copyright
statement on there or whatever.
Then I could say console.log and
give myself a new line and
console.log usage and
console.log that I want
it to take in the help.
When I have help, I want that
to print this help screen or
if I were to pass in name,
I want it to print,
I'm sorry, say hello to name.
Okay, so this is just a simple stupid way
of creating myself a little help program
or a little help printer.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] So what we could
say here, rather than before we assign to
that name function, what we could
do is we could do some checks.
We could say if args.help, which means
that you passed in that help parameter,
or you did not pass in an args.name.
If either one of those things is true,
let's print the help and
then let's exit our program.
And here's another thing that you
need to know if you're writing
kind of these command
line node environments.
How do you end a program?
In JavaScript in the browser,
you usually just return but
that doesn't really quite work
here cuz we're in a global scope.
So the way you do it is to call
process.exit(), which is a function, and
you can give an exit status code
like one or zero or whatever.
So when you call process.exit(), it will
immediately terminate our process for us.
So now we have a program that's
actually gonna validate that we're
gonna use it correctly and it won't allow
us to get into one of those conditions
where we have that unnamed thing.
Let's try.
Let's go back to our command line,
I'll say node 1.js.
And I won't pass anything to it.
And it prints out my help for me.
Or I do node 1.js and
I actually manually ask for the help.
It also prints out the help.
Or I say node 1.js and I actually do it
but I give it the wrong parameter name.
Still says nope, you're doing it wrong.
But when I finally figure out how to
do it correctly, now my program works.
So, in just a few lines of code, we've
been able to create a basic first pass at
a command line tool that we could do any
sort of utilities or reusable work with.
For those of you that are just joining
us online, we were discussing more about
the middle end stuff over the break and
a few people rightly called me on it and
said, well, that's all well and good but
organizations struggle a lot with
the internal politics and
trust issues and things like that.
And is it even practical for them to do
something like what you're suggesting?
It's tough, it is a battle you're gonna
have to fight as I said yesterday.
You lose 100% of the battles
you never fight and
only 99% of the battles you do fight.
So it's tough.
You're gonna have to have some tough
conversations with them that say things
like, why is it that you don't trust that
I could write the data validation rule
in a way that you could rely upon it?
Why is it that you feel like you need to
do your own data validation even though
the code is already within our server
infrastructure and it's auditable and
it's provable that it's correct,
why is it that you don't trust it?
There's some internal trust issues,
there's some internal communication
issues that are certainly happening.
So one of the questions
that was being posed is,
what exactly do you mean
by this middle end?
Or what is the scope of it?
The way I like to describe it is that I
call the middle end the bottom 10% of what
happens in the browser and
the top 10% of what happens on the server.
And everything in between, i.e.,
all of the Ajax communication and
loading headers and caching and all of
that stuff, that's middle end to me.
So if you suggest to me,
if you say, which is rightly true,
there's no current job postings for
middle end architects.
If you go and look for it,
probably not gonna find it, right?
I coined the term middle and
like four or five years ago.
It basically never went
beyond my blog posts, right.
So there isn't middle end
architect as a specialty.
There's middleware, people do middleware,
but you don't really find people
being a specialist that does nothing but
middleware stuff.
What do we do about the fact that we're
not staffed, as you said, I was asked?
We're not staffed to have
people to handle middle end.
Well, what I pushed back a little bit and
I would say,
you already have somebody
writing that code.
The question is whether or
not that person is properly
skilled to be writing that code.
Because right now, you have backend
people that do not like markup,
I'm painting with broad strokes,
forgive the generalities but
you have backend people that generally
speaking don't like the complexities of
cross-platform, cross-browser,
markup issues and C.S.S. and stuff.
And so instead of dealing with that stuff,
they write a servlet it or
whatever to automatically
generate that stuff for them.
That doesn't mean that that's the proper
way for that stuff to get architected,
it just means that that was
the only guy on your team
that at the time you were willing
to trust to write markup and
he didn't want to do it so
he found a tool to do it for him.
Well, then you do probably,
in most companies,
do have JavaScript developers
who are writing jQuery and
they're modifying your page at runtime and
things like that.
Aren't they more aware of the structure
of the page and how things work?
And aren't they more well suited for
understanding cross-browser issues and
rendering and CSS and stuff?
Isn't it that person that really
should've done the markup?
And perhaps if you can answer even
a remotely close to yes to that answer,
then perhaps that's the person that should
be handling all of your templating,
instead of your backend
developers using servlets.
So I don't necessarily think that I'm
suggesting that you need to go out and
hire a whole batch of
middle end architects.
I do think you might need
to retool some people.
There might need to be some people that
give up on stuff that they've been
holding onto as their sacred cows of
saying, this is what I get to work on,
they might need to give some of that up.
You might need to have some people
crosstrain on different skill sets.
You might need to have some people learn
JavaScript that have never learned before.
But I do think it's possible to
retool an existing team to use this
architectural concept well.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: There was
a question from Oliver K,
if there's a way to integrate node
as a middle end for various CMSs?
I think he's looking for
just a simple, yes there is or
no there isn't or it depends.
But obviously I think a detailed
explanation would probably be [LAUGH] out
of scope for this workshop.
>> Kyle Simpson: A detailed explanation
would be its own week-long workshop.
I did write a blog post specifically
about this topic that I can point you to.
That was asking the premise, what would
it look like to middle end WordPress?
And the premise or
the thought process behind that post was,
what does WordPress do well?
And what does WordPress not do so well?
And I know that's a flame
war waiting to happen.
But the simple answer that
I gave to that question is
I don't think WordPress does so
well at theming and display.
But it does do a pretty decent job,
at least for what it's designed to do,
of managing the back end data and
the database and all of that.
So could I turn WordPress
into a headless black box?
Could I turn it into a state management
machine that didn't do any display at all
but it did what it does do really well?
It manages log-in sessions and
other state and things like that.
And what would it look like?
And it turns out there was already
a plugin written for this,
but I theorized that you could write
a plugin for WordPress or theme plugin for
WordPress that instead of doing any kind
of markup generation or anything, all it
did was present the data that it would've
normally marked up as rendered markup.
It just presented the data as JSON.
And then you could have
a middle end here in Node or
whatever that consumed
JSON from your backend,
your black box back in WordPress,
or any other CMS, for that matter.
And it receives the data, and then you'd
pump that data into your own templating
engine and that puts you in control of
the presentation rather than your CMS.
So that's just a 50,000 foot view
of how you might go about that.
I think it's quite possible and
I think more people should do that.
All right, [COUGH]
I like the questions about middle end,
it lets me think that even if even it
offends you or if you disagree with me,
at least you're thinking about it.
So that's good.